Add new frame type: PATH_CIDS_BLOCKED frame (#468)
quicwg/multipath: draft-ietf-quic-multipath.md

as specified in {{Section 9.3 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} by initiating path validation
but MUST use a new connection ID for the same Path ID.

This proposal adds six multipath control frames for path management:

- PATH_ABANDON frame for the receiver side to abandon the path
(see {{path-abandon-frame}}),
- PATH_BACKUP and PATH_AVAILABLE frames to express a preference
in path usage (see {{path-backup-available-frame}}), and
- MAX_PATH_ID frame (see {{max-paths-frame}}) for increasing the limit of
path identifiers,

> - PATHS_BLOCKED frame (see {{paths-and-cids-blocked-frame}})

Reviewer: Editorial suggestion to combine these to one bullet point again (total 3 proposed commits): 
```suggestion
- PATHS_BLOCKED and PATH_CID_BLOCKED frames (see {{paths-and-cids-blocked-frame}})
```

to notify the peer of being blocked to open new paths as
the limit of active paths set by the peer has been reached

> - PATH_CIDS_BLOCKED frame (see {{paths-and-cids-blocked-frame}})
> to notify the peer there are no unused connection IDs available
> for the corresponding Path ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or there are no unused connection IDs available
for the corresponding Path ID.
```

> for the corresponding Path IDs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for the corresponding Path ID.
```

a smaller Maximum Path Identifier value than was previously received.
MAX_PATH_ID frames that do not increase the path limit MUST be ignored.

## PATHS_BLOCKED and PATH_CIDS_BLOCKED frames {#paths-and-cids-blocked-frame}

A sender SHOULD send a PATHS_BLOCKED frame (type=0x15228c0d) when
it wishes to open a path but is unable to do so due to the maximum path identifier
limit set by its peer.

> A sender SHOULD send a PATH_CIDS_BLOCKED frame (type=0x15228c0e) when

Reviewer: I think we should actually change this "SHOULD" to "can". There is no requirement in interoperability that require the sender to send this. Or if we want normative language we should use "MAY".

The same comment of course applies to the PATHS_BLOCKED frame of course. Sorry I overlooked this earlier.

Author: I'd like to vote for "SHOULD" here. Basically it's a recommendation action in this kind of situation.

BTW, PATHS_BLOCKED and PATH_CIDS_BLOCKED are very similar to STREAMS_BLOCKED and we could find a "SHOULD" in [RFC 9000 Section 19.14](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9000#name-streams_blocked-frames):

> A sender SHOULD send a STREAMS_BLOCKED frame (type=0x16 or 0x17) when it wishes to open a stream but is unable to do so due to the maximum stream limit set by its peer...

Reviewer: Actually I think this is slightly different. In case of streams there is no really good reason to limit streams too much. Of course you want to have a limit to avoid excessive resource usage because that would open an attack, however, under normal operation you should not be blocked. In case of the number of paths, there can be other reasons to limit, e.g. you may have a policy to not use more than a small number of paths. Therefore I argue that MAY would make more sense here than SHOULD. However, I don't have a really strong opinion. I would like to hear other people's thoughts.

Author: That's fair enough. For the reason of anti-attack, I agree to use "can" here.

> it wishes to open a path or change the CID on an established path

Reviewer 2: To make the distinction clearer than with the PATHS_BLOCKED frame case.
```suggestion
it wishes to open a path with a valid Path ID or change the CID on an established path
```

but is unable to do so because there are no unused connection IDs available

> for the corresponding Path IDs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for the corresponding Path ID.
```

Note that PATHS_BLOCKED and PATH_CIDS_BLOCKED frames are informational.
Sending a PATHS_BLOCKED or a PATH_CIDS_BLOCKED frame does not imply a particular action from the peer
like updating the new Max Path ID value, but informs the peer that the maximum path identifier limit

> or the absence of unused connection IDs prevented the creation of new paths.

Reviewer 2: A endpoint may avoid using the same CID when it experienced active migration.
```suggestion
or the absence of unused connection IDs prevented the creation or the usage of paths.
```

A sender SHOULD send a PATHS_BLOCKED frame (type=0x15228c0d) when
it wishes to open a path but is unable to do so due to the maximum path identifier
limit set by its peer.
If the Type field in the PATHS_BLOCKED frame is TBD-09(experiments use 0x15228c0e),
it indicates that new paths are blocked because of lacking unused Connection IDs
for the corresponding Path ID.

Note that PATHS_BLOCKED frame is informational. Sending a PATHS_BLOCKED frame does not
imply a particular action from the peer like updating the new Max Path ID value,
but informs the peer that the maximum path identifier limit prevented the creation of new paths

> or the lacking of new Connection IDs.

Reviewer 3: I don't think "lacking" works here grammatically, either use "lack of Connection IDs for any unused path ID".

  Receipt of a value that is higher than the local maximum value MUST
  be treated as a connection error of type PROTOCOL_VIOLATION.

## PATH_CID_BLOCKED frames {#path-cid-blocked-frame}

A sender SHOULD send a PATH_CID_BLOCKED frame (type=0x15228c0e) when
it wishes to open a path but is unable to do so because there are no unused Connection IDs available
for the corresponding Path IDs.

Note that PATH_CID_BLOCKED frame is informational. Sending a PATH_CID_BLOCKED frame does not
imply a particular action from the peer, but informs the peer that the absence of unused Connection IDs
prevented the creation of this path.

> PATH_CID_BLOCKED frames are formatted as shown in {{fig-path-cid-blocked-frame-format}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PATH_CID_BLOCKED frames are formatted as shown in {{fig-path-cid-blocked-frame-format}}.

```

~~~

> PATHS_BLOCKED Frame {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PATHS_CID_BLOCKED Frame {
```

  Receipt of a value that is higher than the local maximum value MUST
  be treated as a connection error of type PROTOCOL_VIOLATION.

> ## PATH_CID_BLOCKED frames {#path-cid-blocked-frame}

Reviewer: Is this PATH_CID_BLOCKED or PATH_CIDS_BLOCKED?

We use plural for PATHS_BLOCKED to align with STREAMS_BLOCKED in rfc9000

Author: Updated.

> A sender SHOULD send a PATH_CID_BLOCKED frame (type=0x15228c0e) when

Reviewer: I think we should actually change this "SHOULD" to "can". There is no requirement in interoperability that require the sender to send this. Or if we want normative language we should use "MAY".

The same comment of course applies to the PATHS_BLOCKED frame of course. Sorry I overlooked this earlier.

> it wishes to open a path but is unable to do so because there are no unused Connection IDs available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it wishes to open a path but is unable to do so because there are no unused connection IDs available
```

> it wishes to open a path but is unable to do so because there are no unused connection IDs available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it wishes to open a path or change the CID on an established path
but is unable to do so because there are no unused connection IDs available
```
I think for CIDs we need to cover this case as well.

for the corresponding Path IDs.

Note that PATH_CID_BLOCKED frame is informational. Sending a PATH_CID_BLOCKED frame does not

> imply a particular action from the peer, but informs the peer that the absence of unused Connection IDs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
imply a particular action from the peer, but informs the peer that the absence of unused connection IDs
```

prevented the creation of this path.

PATH_CID_BLOCKED frames are formatted as shown in {{fig-path-cid-blocked-frame-format}}.

~~~
PATHS_CID_BLOCKED Frame {
  Type (i) = TBD-09 (experiments use 0x15228c0e),
  Path Identifier (i),
}
~~~
{: #fig-path-cid-blocked-frame-format title="PATH_CID_BLOCKED Frame Format"}

Path Identifier:

> : Identifier of the path for which unused Connection IDs are not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Identifier of the path for which unused connection IDs are not available.
```
